---
title: python-igraph 0.8.0
date: 2020-02-14
tags: python
---

python-igraph 0.8.0
===================

Release 0.8.0 of igraph's Python interface follows the recent release of
version 0.8.0 of the C core with many bug fixes that have accumulated over the
last five years, and an improved build process that does not require the C core
of igraph to be downloaded at the time when `python-igraph` is installed; the
tarball of `python-igraph` already bundles the appropriate version of the
C core in it.

Precompiled Python wheels
-------------------------

Starting from this release, we will also aim to provide pre-compiled Python
wheels for most platforms. The current release includes Python wheels for
Python 2.7, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7 and 3.8 on Windows, macOS and Linux, so most users will
not have to compile anything when installing `python-igraph` from pip.
Currently the only limitation is that the Windows wheels do not support GraphML
import; this will be fixed in the next patch release (0.8.1).

End of support for Python 2.7
-----------------------------

`python-igraph` 0.8.x will also be the _last_ version that supports Python 2.7.
Since Python 2 has [reached its end of life](https://www.python.org/doc/sunset-python-2/),
we will drop support for Python 2 before `python-igraph` 0.9 so we can simplify
some parts of the codebase where we needed to introduce additional code to
support both Python versions.

As for Python 3, we are committing ourselves to supporting _at least_ the last
three minor releases of Python 3.

Although we are not suporting PyPy officially, `python-igraph` will also be
tested with PyPy regularly in a CI environment, and we will strive to fix any
issues that arise with PyPy. If you use `python-igraph` with PyPy and you are
willing to become an official maintainer responsible for PyPy compatibility,
please let us know in the [community forum](https://igraph.discourse.group/).

New community forum
-------------------

Concurrently with the release of igraph 0.8, we have launched [a new community
forum](https://igraph.discourse.group/), which replaces the mailing list as
the main support channel. The community forum is also meant for users of
`python-igraph`, so If you are a current `python-igraph` user or just
interested in the project, please join!

We would like to thank everyone who reported issues, contributed features or
fixes, or edited the documentation. igraph is an open-source project run by
volunteers. *As always, your contributions are very welcome!*

