---
title: C/igraph 0.8.3
date: 2020-10-02
tags: c
---

[C/igraph](https://igraph.org/c/) 0.8.3, the third bugfix release of the 0.8 series, has arrived.

The sources can be obtained from [the GitHub releases page](https://github.com/igraph/igraph/releases/tag/0.8.3).

This release includes bug fixes and performance improvements. The changelog is below.

### Added

 - `igraph_vector_binsearch_slice()` performs binary search on a sorted slice of a vector.

### Changed

 - `igraph_eigenvector_centrality()` assumes the adjacency matrix of undirected graphs to have twice the number of self-loops for each vertex on the diagonal. This makes the results consistent between an undirected graph and its directed equivalent when each edge is replaced by a mutual edge pair.

### Fixed

 - `igraph_isomorphic()` now verifies that the input graphs have no multi-edges.
 - `igraph_difference()` was creating superfluous self loops.
 - `igraph_count_multiple()` was giving incorrect results for self-loops in directed graph.
 - `igraph_betweenness_estimate()`: fixed incorrect results with finite cutoff.
 - `igraph_eigen_matrix_symmetric()`: fixed incorrect matrix multiplication.
 - Corrected several issues that could arise during an error condition.
 - `igraph_realize_degree_sequence()` did not correctly detect some non-graphical inputs.
 - `igraph_is_graphical_degree_sequence()`: fixed incorrect results in undirected case.
 - `igraph_community_leiden()`: fixed incorrect result when self-loops are present.
 - `igraph_eigenvector_centrality()`: fixed incorrect value for isolated vertices in weighted graphs.
 - `igraph_eigenvector_centrality()`: corrected the handling of self-loops.

### Other

 - `igraph_degree_sequence_game()`: improved performance with `IGRAPH_DEGSEQ_SIMPLE_NO_MULTIPLE_UNIFORM` method.
 - Improved the robustness of the test suite.
 - Documentation improvements.
 - Improved error and warning messages.
 - Improved compatibility with recent versions of Microsoft Visual C.
