---
title: C/igraph 0.9.1
date: 2021-03-23
tags: c
---

[C/igraph](https://igraph.org/c/) 0.9.1, the first bugfix release of the 0.9
series, has arrived.

The source can be obtained from [the GitHub releases
page](https://github.com/igraph/igraph/releases/tag/0.9.1).

This release includes bug fixes only, apart from a minor addition concerning
lexicographic ordering of vectors, which was not substantial enough for a
minor version bump. The changelog is below.

### Added

 - `igraph_vector_lex_cmp()` and `igrapg_vector_colex_cmp()` for lexicographic
   and colexicographic comparison of vectors. These functions may also be used
   for sorting.

### Changed

 - `igraph_community_multilevel()` is now randomized (thanks to [Daniel Noom](https://github.com/GroteGnoom/)).

### Fixed

 - CMake settings that controlled the library installation directory name, such as `CMAKE_INSTALL_LIBDIR`, were not respected.
 - Under some conditions, the generated pkg-config file contained an incorrect include directory path.
 - The following functions were not exported from the shared library: `igraph_subcomponent()`, `igraph_stack_ptr_free_all()`, `igraph_stack_ptr_destroy_all()`, `igraph_status_handler_stderr()`, `igraph_progress_handler_stderr()`.
 - Built-in random number generators (`igraph_rngtype_mt19937`, `igraph_rngtype_rand`, `igraph_rngtype_glibc2`) were not exported from the shared library.
 - `igraph_layout_graphopt()` no longer rounds the `spring_length` parameter to an integer.
 - `igraph_get_all_shortest_paths_dijkstra()` no longer modifies the `res` vector's item destructor.
 - `igraph_get_shortest_path_bellman_ford()` did not work correctly when calculating paths to all vertices.
 - `igraph_arpack_rnsolve()` checks its parameters more carefully.
 - `igraph_community_to_membership()` does not crash anymore when `csize` is requested but `membership` is not.
 - `igraph_citing_cited_type_game()`: fixed memory leaks (thanks to [Daniel Noom](https://github.com/GroteGnoom).
 - `igraph_transitivity_undirected()`, `igraph_transitivity_avglocal_undirected()` and `igraph_transitivity_barrat()` no longer trigger an assertion failure when used with the null graph.
 - `igraph_(personalized_)pagerank()` would return incorrect results for weighted multigraphs with fewer than 128 vertices when using `IGRAPH_PAGERANK_ALGO_PRPACK`.
 - `igraph_diversity()` now checks its input more carefully, and throws an error when the input graph has multi-edges or is directed.
 - `igraph_shortest_paths_johnson()` would return incorrect results when the `to` argument differed from `from` (thanks to Daniel Noom).
 - `igraph_is_graphical()` would fail to set the result variable for certain special degree sequences in the undirected simple graph case.
 - Non-maximal clique finding functions would sometimes return incomplete results when finding more than 2147483647 (i.e. 2^31 - 1) cliques.
 - GLPK internal errors no longer crash igraph.
 - Fixed some potential memory leaks that could happen on error conditions or when certain functions were interrupted.
 - When testing a DLL build on Windows, the `PATH` was sometimes not set correctly, causing the tests to fail.
 - When compiling from the git repository (as opposed to the release tarball), the build would fail with recent versions of `bison` and `flex`.

### Other

 - Documentation improvements.
 - Much faster documentation builds.
 - Allow using a pre-generated `arith.h` header for f2c when cross-compiling; see the Installation section of the documentation.
 - The `IGRAPH_ENABLE_LTO` build option now supports the `AUTO` value, which uses LTO only if the compiler supports it. Warning: CMake may not always be able to detect that LTO is not fully supported. Therefore, the default setting is `OFF`.
 - The following functions are now interruptible: `igraph_grg_game()`, `igraph_sbm_game()`, `igraph_barabasi_game()`, `igraph_barabasi_aging_game()`.
 - Functions that use GLPK, such as `igraph_feedback_arc_set()` and `igraph_community_optimal_modularity()` are now interruptible.
 - Add support for older versions of Clang that do not recognize the `-Wno-varargs` flag.

### Acknowledgments

 - Big thanks to [Daniel Noom](https://github.com/GroteGnoom/) for continuing to expand the test suite and discovering and fixing several bugs in the process!

