---
title: C/igraph 0.9.3
date: 2021-05-05
tags: c
---

[C/igraph](https://igraph.org/c/) 0.9.3, the third bugfix release of the 0.9
series, has arrived.

The source can be obtained from [the GitHub releases
page](https://github.com/igraph/igraph/releases/tag/0.9.3).

This release includes bug fixes only.

### Added

 - OpenMP is now enabled and used by certain functions (notably PageRank calculation) when the compiler supports it. Set `IGRAPH_OPENMP_SUPPORT=OFF` at configuration time to disable this.

### Fixed

 - `igraph_get_incidence()` no longer reads and writes out of bounds when given a non-bipartite graph, but gives a warning and ignores edges within a part.
 - `igraph_dyad_census()` no longer reports an overflow on singleton graphs, and handles loops and multigraphs correctly. Undirected graphs are handled consistently and will no longer give a warning.
 - `igraph_vector_lex_cmp()` and `igraph_vector_colex_cmp()` dereferenced their arguments only once instead of twice, and therefore did not work with `igraph_vector_ptr_sort()`.
 - `igraph_maximal_cliques_subset()` and `igraph_transitivity_barrat()` corrupted the error handling stack ("finally stack") under some circumstances.
 - CMake package files did not respect `CMAKE_INSTALL_LIBDIR`. This only affected Linux distributions which install into `lib64` or other locations instead of `lib`.
 - The parser sources could not be generated when igraph was in a location that contained spaces in its path.
 - igraph no longer links to the math library (`libm`) when this is not necessary.
 - `_CRT_SECURE_NO_WARNINGS` is now defined during compilation to enable compatibility with UWP.
 - Fixed a compilation issue on MSYS / MinGW when link-time optimization was enabled and the `MSYS Makefiles` CMake generator was used. Some source files in igraph were renamed as a consequence, but these should not affect users of the library.

### Deprecated

 - `igraph_rng_min()` is now deprecated; assume a constant zero as its return value if you used this function in your own code.

### Other

 - Updated the vendored CXSparse library to version 3.2.0

