---
title: C/igraph 0.9.5
date: 2021-11-11
tags: c
---

[C/igraph](https://igraph.org/c/) 0.9.5, the fifth bugfix release of the 0.9 series, has arrived.

The source can be obtained from [the GitHub releases
page](https://github.com/igraph/igraph/releases/tag/0.9.5).

This release includes bug fixes and performance improvements only.

### Fixed

 - `igraph_reindex_membership()` does not allow negative membership indices any more.

 - `igraph_rewire_directed_edges()` now generates multigraphs when edge
   directions are ignored, to make it consistent with the directed case.

 - Fixed a bug in `igraph_gomory_hu_tree()` that returned only the equivalent
   flow tree instead of the cut tree.

 - Fixed a bug in the `IGRAPH_TO_UNDIRECTED_COLLAPSE` mode of
   `igraph_to_undirected()` that provided an incorrect merge vector to the
   attribute handler, leading to problems when edge attributes were merged
   using an attribute combination.

 - Fixed the behaviour of the `IGRAPH_ENABLE_LTO` option when it was set to
   `AUTO`; earlier versions had a bug where `AUTO` simply checked whether LTO
   is supported but then did not use LTO even if it was supported.

 - When using igraph from a CMake project, it is now checked that the project
   has the C++ language enabled. This is necessary for linking to igraph with
   CMake.

### Other

 - Improved the root selection method for disconnected graphs in the
   Reingold-Tilford layout (#1836). The new root selection method provides
   nicer results if the graph is not a tree, although it is still recommended
   to use the Sugiyama layout instead, unless the input graph is _almost_
   a tree, in which case Reingold-Tilfold may still be preferred.

 - `igraph_decompose()` is now much faster for large graphs containing many
   isolates or small components.

 - `igraph_largest_cliques()` and `igraph_clique_number()` were re-written to
   use `igraph_maximal_cliques_callback()` so they are much faster now.

 - The vendored GLPK has been upgraded to GLPK 5.0.

 - Documentation improvements.

