---
title: C/igraph 0.9.7
date: 2022-03-16
tags: c
---

[C/igraph](https://igraph.org/c/) 0.9.7, the seventh bugfix release of the 0.9 series, has arrived.

The source can be obtained from [the GitHub releases
page](https://github.com/igraph/igraph/releases/tag/0.9.7).

This release includes bug fixes, build system tweaks and minor (performance and
non-performance-related) improvements. Read on for more details.

<!--more-->

### Changed

 - `igraph_get_all_shortest_paths_dijsktra()` now uses tolerances when comparing path
   lengths, and is thus robust to numerical roundoff errors.
 - `igraph_vector_*_swap` and `igraph_matrix_swap` now take O(1) instead of O(n) and accept all sizes.

### Fixed

 - NCOL and LGL format writers no longer accept "name" and "weight" attributes
   of invalid types.
 - The LGL writer could not access numerical weight attributes, potentially leading
   to crashes.
 - External PLFIT libraries and their headers are now detected at their standard
   installation location.
 - `igraph_vector_init()` no longer accepts negative vector sizes.
 - `igraph_assortativity_nominal()` crashed on the null graph.
 - Label propagation now ensures that all labels are dominant.
 - Fixed incorrect partition results for walktrap algorithm (issue #1927)
 - Negative values returned by `igraph_rng_get_integer()` and `RNG_INTEGER()` were incorrect,
   one larger than they should have been.
 - `igraph_community_walktrap()` now checks its `steps` input argument.
 - The first modularity value reported by `igraph_community_walktrap()` was
   incorrect (it was always zero). This is now fixed.
 - `igraph_correlated_game()` would return incorrect results, or exhaust the memory,
    for most input graphs that were not generated with `igraph_erdos_renyi_game_gnp()`.

### Other

 - The C attribute handler now verifies attribute types when retrieving attributes.
 - Documentation improvements

