---
title: C/igraph 0.9.6
date: 2022-01-05
tags: c
---

[C/igraph](https://igraph.org/c/) 0.9.6, the sixth bugfix release of the 0.9 series, has arrived.

The source can be obtained from [the GitHub releases
page](https://github.com/igraph/igraph/releases/tag/0.9.6).

This release includes bug fixes, build system tweaks and minor (performance and
non-performance-related) improvements. Read on for more details.

<!--more-->

### Changed

 - Isomorphism class functions (`igraph_isoclass()`, `igraph_isoclass_subgraph()`,
   `igraph_isoclass_create`) and motif finder functions (`igraph_motifs_randesu()`,
   `igraph_motifs_randesu_estimate()`, `igraph_motifs_randesu_callback()`) now
   support undirected (sub)graphs of sizes 5 and 6. Previsouly only sizes 3 and 4
   were supported.

### Fixed

 - igraph would not build with MinGW when using the vendored GLPK and enabling TLS.
 - Removed some uses of `abort()` from vendored libraries, which could unexpectedly
   shut down the host language of igraph's high-level interfaces.
 - `igraph_community_label_propagation()` no longer leaves any vertices unlabeled
   when they were not reachable from any labeled ones, i.e. the returned membership
   vector is guaranteed not to contain negative values (#1853).
 - The Kamada-Kawai layout is now interruptible.
 - The Fruchterman-Reingold layout is now interruptible.
 - Fixed a bug in `igraph_cmp_epsilon()` that resulted in incorrect results for
   edge betweenness calculations in certain rare cases with x87 floating point
   math when LTO was also enabled (#1894).
 - Weighted clique related functions now fall back to the unweighted variants
   when a null vertex weight vector is given to them.
 - `igraph_erdos_renyi_game_(gnm|gnp)` would not produce self-loops for the singleton
   graph.
 - Fixed a bug in `igraph_local_efficiency()` that sometimes erroneously
   reported zero as the local efficiency of a vertex in directed graphs.
 - `igraph_vector_update()` (and its type-specific variants) did not check for
   memory allocation failure.
 - Fixed a potential crash in the GraphML reader that would be triggered by some
   invalid GraphML files.

### Other

 - `igraph_is_tree()` has improved performance and memory usage.
 - `igraph_is_connected()` has improved performance when checking weak connectedness.
 - Improved error handling in `igraph_maximal_cliques()` and related functions.
 - The build system now checks that GLPK is of a compatible version (4.57 or later).
 - The vendored `plfit` package was updated to 0.9.3.
 - You can now build igraph with an external `plfit` instead of the vendored one.
 - Documentation improvements.

