---
title: R/igraph 1.3.2
date: 2022-06-13
tags: r
---

[R-igraph](https://igraph.org/r/) 1.3.2, the second bugfix release of the 1.3
series is now released -- and it looks like we forgot to post an announcement
about 1.3.1, so in the rest of this post we summarize the changes in versions
1.3.1 and 1.3.2 as well.

As always, we tried to do our best not to cause breaking changes for users of
igraph from R, but in case we have made unintentional mistakes, please report
issues in the [Github issue tracker](https://github.com/igraph/rigraph/issues).

<!--more-->

## igraph 1.3.2

The C core is updated to 0.9.9, fixing a range of bugs.

### Fixed

- The length of size-zero `communities` objects is now reported correctly.
- `layout_with_kk()` would fail to produce reasonable results with the default initial
  coordinates. This has been corrected, however, this function no longer produces
  precisely the same output for a given graph as before. To restore the previous
  behaviour, use `layout_with_kk(g, coord=layout_in_circle(g))` in 2D or
  `layout_with_kk(g, dim=3, coord=layout_on_sphere(g))` in 3D.
- Indexing an `igraph.vs` object with `v[x, na_ok=T]` now correctly handles the
  `na_ok` argument in all cases; previous versions ignored it when `x` was
  a single number.

### Other

 - Documentation improvements and fixes.

## igraph 1.3.1

### Fixed

- `graph_from_adjacency_matrix()` now works with sparse matrices even if the
  cell values in the sparse matrix are unspecified.
- Fixed crash in `cluster_walktrap()` when `modularity=FALSE` and `membership=FALSE`.
- `cluster_walktrap()` no longer accepts invalid weight vectors.
- `cluster_walktrap()` no longer returns a modularity vector of invalid length for
  disconnected graphs. This also fixes some rare failures of this function on
  weighted disconnected graphs.
- `edge_attr()` does not ignore its `index=...` argument any more.
- `automorphisms()`, `automorphism_group()` and `canonical_permutation()` now
  allow all possible values supported by the C core in the `sh` argument.
  Earlier versions supported only `"fm"`.
- The `vertex.frame.width` plotting parameter now allows zero and negative
  values; these will simply remove the outline of the corresponding vertex.
- The documentation of the `sh` argument of the BLISS isomorphism algorithm in
  `isomorphic()` was fixed; earlier versions incorrectly referred to `sh1` and
  `sh2`.
- `dominator_tree()` now conforms to its documentation with respect to the
  `dom` component of the result: it contains the indices of the dominator
  vertices for each vertex and `-1` for the root of the dominator tree.
- Mentions of the `"power"` algorithm of `page_rank()` have been removed from
  the documentation, as this method is no longer available.
- Several other documentation fixes to bring the docs up to date with new behaviours
  in igraph 1.3.
