---
title: C/igraph 0.10.7
date: 2023-09-04
tags: c
---

[C/igraph](https://igraph.org/c/) 0.10.7, the sixth bugfix release of the 0.10 series, has arrived.

The source can be obtained from [the GitHub releases page](https://github.com/igraph/igraph/releases/tag/0.10.7).

This is primarily a maintenance release with bug fixes, but it also adds weighted variants of `igraph_radius()` and `igraph_graph_center()` as experimental functions. Their API will be finalized in version 0.11.0 (although we do not anticipate any changes compared to the current version).

Read on for more details about the changes in version 0.10.7.

<!--more-->

### Added

 - `igraph_radius_dijkstra()` computes the graph radius with weighted edges (experimental function).
 - `igraph_graph_center_dijkstra()` computes the graph center, i.e. the set of minimum eccentricity vertices, with weighted edges (experimental function).

### Fixed

 - `igraph_full_bipartite()` now checks for overflow.
 - `igraph_bipartite_game_gnm()` and `igraph_bipartite_game_gnp()` are now more robust to overflow.
 - Bipartite graph creation functions now check input arguments.
 - `igraph_write_graph_dot()` now quotes real numbers written in exponential notation as necessary.
 - Independent vertex set finding functions could trigger the fatal error "Finally stack too large" when called on large graphs.

### Deprecated

 - `igraph_bipartite_game()` is now deprecated; use `igraph_bipartite_game_gnm()` and `igraph_bipartite_game_gnp()` instead.

### Other

 - Documentation improvements.

