---
title: C/igraph 0.10.4
date: 2023-01-27
tags: c
---

[C/igraph](https://igraph.org/c/) 0.10.4, the third bugfix release of the 0.10 series, has arrived.

The source can be obtained from [the GitHub releases page](https://github.com/igraph/igraph/releases/tag/0.10.4).

This release adds support for finding a shortest path with the A* algorithm and for finding a greedy vertex coloring with the DSatur heuristics. It also adds interruption support for the Bellman-Ford and Floyd-Warshall shortest path finder algorithms.

Read on for more details about the changes in version 0.10.4.

<!--more-->

### Added

 - `igraph_get_shortest_path_astar()` finds a shortest path with the A* algorithm.
 - `igraph_vertex_coloring_greedy()` now supports the DSatur heuristics (#2284, thanks to @professorcode1).

### Changed

 - The `test` build target now only _runs_ the unit tests, but it does not _build_ them. In order to both build and run tests, use the `check` target, which continues to behave as before (PR #2291).
 - The experimental function `igraph_distances_floyd_warshall()` now has `from` and `to` parameters for choosing source and target vertices.
 - The experimental function `igraph_distances_floyd_warshall()` now has an additional `method` parameter to select a specific algorithm. A faster "Tree" variant of the Floyd-Warshall algorithm is now available (#2267, thanks to @rfulekjames).

### Fixed

 - The Bellman-Ford shortest path finder is now interruptible.
 - The Floyd-Warshall shortest path finder is now interruptible.
 - Running CTest no longer builds the tests automatically, as this interfered with VSCode, which would invoke the `ctest` executable after configuring a project in order to determine test executables. Use the `build_tests` target to build the tests first, or use the `check` target to both _build_ and _run_ all unit tests (PR #2291).

### Other

 - Improved the performance and memory usage of `igraph_widest_path_widths_floyd_warshall()`.
 - Documentation improvements.

