---
title: C/igraph 0.10.9
date: 2024-02-02
tags: c
---

[C/igraph](https://igraph.org/c/) 0.10.9, the eighth bugfix release of the 0.10 series, has arrived.

The source can be obtained from [the GitHub releases page](https://github.com/igraph/igraph/releases/tag/0.10.9).

This is primarily a maintenance release with bug fixes, but it also adds functions to check whether a graph is biconnected and to construct a bipartite graph from a bidegree sequence.

Read on for more details about the changes in version 0.10.9.

<!--more-->

### Added

 - `igraph_is_biconnected()` checks if a graph is biconnected.
 - `igraph_igraph_realize_bipartite_degree_sequence()` constructs a bipartite graph that has the given bidegree sequence, optionally ensuring that it is connected.

### Fixed

 - More robust error handling in HRG code.
 - Fixed infinite loop in `igraph_hrg_sample_many()`.
 - `igraph_community_fastgreedy()` no longer crashes when providing a modularity vector only, but not a merges matrix of membership vector.
 - The graph property cache was not initialized correctly on systems where the size of `bool` was not 1 byte (#2477).
 - Compatibility with libxml2 version 2.12 (#2442).

### Deprecated

 - The macro `STR()` is deprecated; use the function `igraph_strvector_get()` instead.

### Other

 - Performance: Reduced memory usage and improved initialization performance for `igraph_strvector_t`.
 - Performance: Improved cache use by `igraph_is_bipartite()`.
 - The documentation is now also generated in Texinfo format.
 - Documentation improvements

