---
title: python-igraph 0.11.6
date: 2024-05-07
tags: python
---

[python-igraph](https://python.igraph.org/en/0.11.6/) 0.11.6, the sixth bugfix release of the 0.11 series, has arrived. The primary reason for this release is to update the C core of igraph to 0.10.13, which brings a few bugfixes and also a few new functions to the Python interface. Please refer to the [changelog](https://github.com/igraph/python-igraph/releases/tag/0.11.6) for more details.

The preferred way of installing the Python interface is via `pip`; typing `pip install igraph` should install a pre-compiled Python wheel on most supported platforms (Windows, Linux and macOS). The pre-compiled wheels and the source code are also available from the [Python Package Index page](https://pypi.org/project/igraph/0.11.3/).

Read on for more details about the changes in version 0.11.6.

<!--more-->

### Added

 - Added `Graph.Hypercube()` for creating n-dimensional hypercube graphs.
 - Added `Graph.Chung_Lu()` for sampling from the Chung-Lu model as well as several related models.
 - Added `Graph.is_complete()` to test if there is a connection between all distinct pairs of vertices.
 - Added `Graph.is_clique()` to test if a set of vertices forms a clique.
 - Added `Graph.is_independent_vertex_set()` to test if some vertices form an independent set.
 - Added `Graph.mean_degree()` for a convenient way to compute the average degree of a graph.

### Changed

 - The C core of igraph was updated to version 0.10.13.
 - `Graph.rewire()` now attempts to perform edge swaps 10 times the number of edges by default.
 - Error messages issued when an attribute is not found now mention the name and type of that attribute.

